# FinGame5.0_Forecasting

FinGame is a McGraw Hill financial tool for students to practice managing a hypothetical company of a number of operational periods.
This is the R code I used when participating to better forcast espected demand curves, market movements and calculate optimal budgeting decisions.

The game was fundamentally formulatic and not a perfect comarison to real markets, however, it provided a competitive environment and needed constant attention.
This file is the end result after 3 months of simulation and 25 in game-periods. This code only encapsulates a small portion of the work that went into this project. The need to rigoursly test theories , and the fiancial understanding of what the simulation provided students to plan ahead. For a more full understanding of the program, please read the FinGame 5.0 Handbook.

After each period, the program would produce a quarterly report. Included at the end of that report were uniform predictions for market movement for all upcoming quarters. Uniform in the sense that all "companies" recieved the same predictions. Included in this code are 10 distinct lists of numbers for Price and Quant. A(ctual) and F(orcasted) denoting what was the provided prediction and the observed results after the period had progressed. These datasets were formed and updated with every period that progressed. The prediction models were used with their uncompleteled forms that would produce less educated guesses as they lacked these later datapoints that were then formed. This primary piece of code was written in an attempt to calculate the shifting demand curve for each period. Provided is a dataset for parallel student observations, who's data fell on the same curve and could be used to map out the elasticity of the curve. This data was provided to students with a lag of 1 period. The provided excel dataset was unfinished and constantly behind during use-case. To make more accurate predictions, communication and networking was required of "companies" to obtain this information earlier. All demand curves were symetric in nature. The purpose of the prediciton was to find the upcoming balance point. This was provided by the program after each period progressed. This is the A(ctual) datasets.

The second major half of this code is creating models to predict Investment yields. One option within Fingame was to invest money into securities and within that investment to specify what level of risk the investment should have on a scale from 0-9. This simulated external stock market was a poor comparable as it was quite clearly formualic and following a pattern. This section of code was didicated towards determining that pattern to enamble a max risk bet when the yield was predicted to spike. The system provided the data for the 0 risk yeild every period, all other information had to be obtained through comany investments. This code assumes the market yeilds were modeled from the CAPM model with risk serving as Beta. Using this, it can use data with any level of risk to identify the market trend. 
